README.md, before:

# Markdown-Include

## Introduction

Markdown 的优点是简洁, 只需很少的几种标记即可将文档内容条理清晰地呈现给读者, 使用者非常容易上手, 而 AsciiDoc, reStructuredText 等标记文件虽然功能较多, 但掌握起来并非易事, 更不用说重量级的排版工具 LaTeX. 然而, "成也萧何, 败也萧何", Markdown 缺少一项非常重要的文件包含功能, 这限制了使用 Markdown 构建复杂文档的功能. 本项目采用文本处理程序 (如 perl, awk, sed 等) 和 GNU Make 实现了 Markdown 的文件包含功能, 能够先自动生成 .md 文件的包含依赖关系, 然后通过 GNU Make 构建一个单一的 .md 文件.

The advantage of Markdown is its simplicity; with just a few types of markup, it can present document content to readers in a clear and organized manner, making it very easy for users to get started. In contrast, markup languages like AsciiDoc and reStructuredText, while offering more features, are not as easy to master—not to mention heavyweight typesetting tools like LaTeX. However, "what makes it succeed can also lead to its failure." Markdown lacks a crucial file inclusion function, which limits its ability to build complex documents. This project utilizes text processing programs (such as Perl, Awk, Sed, etc.) and GNU Make to implement file inclusion for Markdown. It can automatically generate the inclusion dependencies of .md files and then use GNU Make to build a single, unified .md file.

## Syntax and Usage

文档的所有文件应置于 docs 目录下，所有 Markdown 文件以 .md 为后缀，如涉及文件包含，文件包含路径应是相对 docs/ 的路径； 将 Makefile 放入与 docs 同级目录中，运行 make 命令即可，生成文件在 dist 目录中。

文件包含的语法:

```
[[ filename.md ]]
```

注意: 
- `[[` 必须顶格开始, 
- `filename.md` 前后可以有空格, 
- `]]` 后面除了空格外, 不能含有其它字符.

All files of the document should be placed in the `docs` directory, and all Markdown files should have the `.md` suffix. If file inclusion is involved, the file inclusion path should be relative to `docs/`. Place the `Makefile` in the same level directory as `docs`, and simply run the `make` command to generate the files in the `dist` directory.

The file inclusion syntax is as follows:  

```
[[ filename.md ]]
```

Note:  
- `[[` must start at the beginning of the line.  
- Spaces before or after `filename.md` are allowed.  
- After `]]`, only whitespace is permitted—no other characters are allowed.

## Converting Markdown to PDF with Pandoc

The rule in Makefile is as follows:

```
%.pdf: %.md
	pandoc --pdf-engine=xelatex -V $(FONT) $$< -o $$@
```

You need to reset variable FONT in Makefile according to your system and run `make pdf`.

## References

- [Markdown and Including Multiple Files](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4779582/markdown-and-including-multiple-files)
- [Embedding One Markdown Document in Another](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18438907/embedding-one-markdown-document-in-another)
- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
- [Markdown 指南中文版](https://www.markdown.xyz/)
- [Introducing Markdown and Pandoc](https://github.com/Apress/introducing-markdown-and-pandoc)

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Add pandoc options for converint markdown to pdf

README.md, after:

# Markdown-Include

## Introduction

Markdown 的优点是简洁, 只需很少的几种标记即可将文档内容条理清晰地呈现给读者, 使用者非常容易上手, 而 AsciiDoc, reStructuredText 等标记文件虽然功能较多, 但掌握起来并非易事, 更不用说重量级的排版工具 LaTeX. 然而, "成也萧何, 败也萧何", Markdown 缺少一项非常重要的文件包含功能, 这限制了使用 Markdown 构建复杂文档的功能. 本项目采用文本处理程序 (如 perl, awk, sed 等) 和 GNU Make 实现了 Markdown 的文件包含功能, 能够先自动生成 .md 文件的包含依赖关系, 然后通过 GNU Make 构建一个单一的 .md 文件.

The advantage of Markdown is its simplicity; with just a few types of markup, it can present document content to readers in a clear and organized manner, making it very easy for users to get started. In contrast, markup languages like AsciiDoc and reStructuredText, while offering more features, are not as easy to master—not to mention heavyweight typesetting tools like LaTeX. However, "what makes it succeed can also lead to its failure." Markdown lacks a crucial file inclusion function, which limits its ability to build complex documents. This project utilizes text processing programs (such as Perl, Awk, Sed, etc.) and GNU Make to implement file inclusion for Markdown. It can automatically generate the inclusion dependencies of .md files and then use GNU Make to build a single, unified .md file.

## Prerequistes

- Text processing utilities: perl, awk, sed
- GNU make
- If you want to convert Markdown to PDF, you must install TeX Live and Pandoc.

## Syntax and Usage

文档的所有文件应置于 docs 目录下，所有 Markdown 文件以 .md 为后缀，如涉及文件包含，文件包含路径应是相对 docs/ 的路径； 将 Makefile 放入与 docs 同级目录中，运行 make 命令即可，生成文件在 dist 目录中。

文件包含的语法:

```
[[ filename.md ]]
```

注意:

- 文件包含指令必须单独成行,
- `[[` 必须顶格开始,
- `filename.md` 前后可以有空格,
- `]]` 后面除了空格外, 不能含有其它字符.

All files of the document should be placed in the `docs` directory, and all Markdown files should have the `.md` suffix. If file inclusion is involved, the file inclusion path should be relative to `docs/`. Place the `Makefile` in the same level directory as `docs`, and simply run the `make` command to generate the files in the `dist` directory.

The file inclusion syntax is as follows:

```
[[ filename.md ]]
```

Note:

- The file contains instructions that must be on separate lines.
- `[[` must start at the beginning of the line.
- Spaces before or after `filename.md` are allowed.
- After `]]`, only whitespace is permitted—no other characters are allowed.

## Converting Markdown to PDF with Pandoc

The rule in Makefile is as follows:

```
%.pdf: %.md
	pandoc --pdf-engine=xelatex -V $(FONT) $$< -o $$@
```

You need to reset variable FONT in Makefile according to your system and run `make pdf`.

## References

- [Markdown and Including Multiple Files](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4779582/markdown-and-including-multiple-files)
- [Embedding One Markdown Document in Another](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18438907/embedding-one-markdown-document-in-another)
- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
- [Markdown 指南中文版](https://www.markdown.xyz/)
- [Introducing Markdown and Pandoc](https://github.com/Apress/introducing-markdown-and-pandoc)

## License

MIT License
